.TH blackcat 1 "July 16, 2018" "version 0.0.1" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
blackcat \- a file encryptor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B blackcat [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIBlackcat\fR is a file encryptor tool that allows you protect files by creating secure repositories. Its usage
is similar to a SCM tool.
.PP
This file encryptor gathers the most common modern symmetric algorithms. It is possible to define just one algorithm for the
protection layer or even it is possible to cascade them. Currently you can count with more than one thousand encryption schemes.
Including ciphers in \fICBC\fR, \fIOFB\fR and \fICTR\fR modes in flat encryption besides \fIHMAC\fR. You can also encode
the encrypted data with \fIUUEncode\fR or \fIBase64\fR.
.PP
The basic using workflow is:

- create a secure repository.

- add protected or plain files to the its catalog.

- edit the catalog by locking, unlocking or even removing all files from it or one by one.

All of the workflow stages are driven by meaningful commands. You can also save the whole repository to transport
it securely to another environment.

A blackcat repository can be keyed alike or keyed twice. When keyed alike, all catalog operations require only one password.
When keyed twice, most basic operations such as adding new files or checking the repository status will require only the
first password. However, for more advanced operations such as locking and unlocking files, the two keys will be necessary.

To learn more deeply about each implemented \fIblackcat\fR command you should read the user's manual probably installed in:

\fI/usr/local/share/blackcat/doc/MANUAL\fR (or equivalent in your system).

The author does not recommend use this tool to encrypt large files (up to 1 Gigabyte) for doing this task a disk
encryptor would be a better choice instead of a file encryptor. \fIBlackcat\fR would be useful for a set of sensitive
files that could be edited independently, thus you only let the essential decrypted secrets while editing them. In
a worst scenario it would mitigate the risk of exposing all secrets to an eavesdropper.

The application's package also include features to hide the repository from possible eavesdroppers hacking the system
with some backdoor. You should read the manual in order to learn how to use it.

.PP
.SH EXIT STATUS
If the execution succeeds \fIblackcat\fR returns zero, otherwise non zero values will be returned.

.PP
.SH
SEE ALSO
.TP
\fI/usr/local/share/blackcat/doc\fR (or equivalent in your system)
.PP
.SH
HOMEPAGE
.TP
https://github.com/rafael-santiago/blackcat
.SH AUTHOR
Rafael Santiago
